---
layout: blog.hbs
title: "Paul Rand - A Designer's Art"
date: 2014-08-26 15:53:00
categories: blog
---

Anyone who knows me well, knows that I'm a huge fan of Paul Rand's work. I own
quite a lot of his books and cover designs, so I figured I'd start with this
one.

<div class="wide-750">
  <img src="https://assets.runemadsen.com/blog/books/designersart1.jpg" />
</div>

_A Designer's Art_ is a collection of Paul Rand's writings about design, taken
from a sample of his books and articles written between 1946 to 1984. It's a
great introduction to his thinking about graphic design, and I own two versions
of this book: The first edition hardcover from 1985, and the first edition
paperback from the same year.

<div class="wide-750">
  <img src="https://assets.runemadsen.com/blog/books/designersart2.jpg" />
</div>

The book is filled with examples of his work, including logo designs, book
covers, magazine designs, and his children's books. A common thread in most of
the texts is Rand's notion of design as the foundation for all art forms, and
how good design must come from applying the right form to your unique content.
Although Rand's graphic style is very playful and colorful, many of the texts
(_Design and the Play Instinct_, _The Meaning of Repetition_, etc) have an
interesting functional tone, pointing towards the works of Josef
MÃ¼ller-Brockmann and Karl Gerstner.

<div class="wide-750">
  <img src="https://assets.runemadsen.com/blog/books/designersart3.jpg" />
</div>

I use many of these texts as short introductions to the field of graphic design
for my graduate students, and the entire book (excluding Rand's obvious disdain
for anything computational) has held up pretty well over the years. Oh, and I'm
lucky to own the original litography of one of the examples, an illustration
from Paul and Ann Rand's book _Listen! Listen!_ from 1969.
