---
layout: blog.hbs
title: "Ulrike Felsing - Dynamic Identities in Cultural and Public Contexts"
date: 2014-09-06 14:22:00
categories: blog
---

Last week's posts about Karl Gerstner reminded me of this book. _Dynamic
Identities in Cultural and Public Contexts_ (2010) is less of a design book, and
more of an academic research paper on dynamic logo design, in which the author
categorizes the different qualities of computational and generative identities.

<div class="wide-750">
  <img src="https://assets.runemadsen.com/blog/books/dynamicidentities1.jpg" />
</div>

I see a clear line to Karl Gerstner's work on modular design systems, and many
of his design products could have been featured in this book. Although the book
has many real-world design examples, I find the quality of them a bit lacking.
This could be because the field of generative design often leans more towards
trends and technical ambitions than actual good design. I show some of that work
in my lecture on
[dynamic logos](http://printingcode.runemadsen.com/lecture-logo/) (although that
link mostly has notes for myself).

<div class="wide-750">
  <img src="https://assets.runemadsen.com/blog/books/dynamicidentities2.jpg" />
</div>

One of the more interesting logos in the book is the visual identity for Walker
Art Center in Minneapolis. I had the chance to see it in person during last
year's [Eyeo Festival](http://eyeofestival.com/), and it's quite interesting.
The logo is built around the custom _Walker_ typeface created for the center in
1995, and a custom piece of software that generates these word collages. Every
character in the alphabet is mapped to a word (_d_ is _design_, _e_ is
_exhibitions_, etc), and a new visual can quickly be generated by pressing a few
keys on a keyboard. The horizontal structure of the identity is also perfect for
leading visitors through the hallways of the building.

<div class="wide-750">
  <img src="https://assets.runemadsen.com/blog/books/dynamicidentities3.jpg" />
</div>

In a field where critical thinking is often neglected (_"Hey look, I splattered
a canvas with an algorithm!_"), I welcome this book with open arms.
